They were going to kill Arthur.
Can you imagine?
They would've killed him too.
but I put a stop to it.
The arrogance. the stupidity.
Not that Uther ever was
one for a scholar's coat.
I heard about their sordid
plan in the way that I have.
Whispers in the wind. faces
in the embers of the fire.
and I made it my affair to save him.
The high king would do his worst.
But I would have my way.
My way.
was it?
Was it ever my way?
But I'm getting ahead of myself.
I always am.
This is to be Arthur's story.
but there's more to Arthur than his birth.
To understand him. you
have to understand the land.
This land. this island of the mighty.
And you have to understand me.
for I am the man who made him.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Every year of my kingship.
it has been my custom
to give the first take of my salmon weir
to one of your number
as a sign of my respect.
Respect for what?
Everyone knows that your boy is cursed.
So you say. but the weir is mine.
and the salmon mine to give.
Elphin is my only son.
A man must do for his
true sons what he can
to advance their fortunes.
Bring a bounty. boy. and
show them the curse is broken.
And what if the nets are empty?
You might have warned
me about the snow upriver.
me of your foolish plan.
All his ill luck aforetime was nothing.
You've let him destroy
the virtue of our weir.
Elphin. enough!
He. he has something.
It's nothing. a drowned carcass.
Why so eager to share this bad luck?
The scrawny thing's dead.
Who'd be for throwing a
babe like that in the river?
The child is bewitched.
Throw him back in and be done with it.
Don't touch him.
The babe could be cursed. son.
I'm already cursed.
By the goddess.
Behold.
Taliesin of the radiant brow.
Never in Gwyddno's weir
was there such good fortune as today.
Small you are. Taliesin.
and weak. yet there
is virtue in your tongue.
A bard. the boy will be.
A maker with words like no other
from the beginning of the world.
and in his voice will be
born a kingdom of summer.
Henceforth. let no one say
Elphin Ap Gwyddno is unlucky.
Charis. Charis. Charis. Charis.
Charis. Charis. Charis. Charis. Charis.
Charis. Charis. Charis.
You there. fetch me your lord.
And be quick with you.
Oh yeah. yeah. yeah.
Peace. Hagan. peace.
What have you seen?
They're coming.
Picti?
From today. we will no longer speak
of Irish. Pict. or
Saecsen. but of Barbarian.
Unified?
Mmm.
I had hoped for a few more years.
One season more or less. what difference?
Take the day as it comes. o'King.
Do you see victory for us?
Better to ask your son.
He sees these things much clearer than I.
I have not seen Taliesin in three days.
Where is he when I need him?
He'll be where he's needed most.
Earth Mother. behold your son.
Sky Mother. recognize
your devoted servant.
Father of Wisdom. speak to
me that I may hear your voice.
Great Goddess. Queen of Life.
reveal to me the vision of your sight.
Speak-A beautiful prayer.
The gods of this place must be pleased.
It is unwise to sneak up
on a man while he prays.
It is unwise to pray while
a man sneaks up on you.
You are old to have
climbed this hill alone.
You are young to have climbed it at all.
You think me young to seek the gods?
Few enough
seek the gods. young or old.
The chair on which you sit
belongs to the head of our order.
the Chief Druid of the
Island of the Mighty.
And are you a druid
then. Taliesin Ap Elphin?
You know me.
All men
know of the great Taliesin.
They say you are the most
powerful of your people.
I am as you see me.
Who are you?
Curious. isn't it?
Why did your order allow one
of their sacred stones to fall?
Must have fallen long ago.
I wonder. will you be the man to raise it?
I see why it fell.
Forgive me. stranger.
Do the dead forgive?
It is very old.
What of the markings?
Cernunnos. The Horned Lord!
One of your gods?
No. much older.
Ancient one.
No. no.
No.
Put it back!
Put the stone back!
No doubt I think this Cernunnos
would prefer you left his stone upright.
He would have me revive the old ways.
Ah. and what do you think?
Look upon me then. Shining Brow.
Have you nothing to say to me. Great Bard?
No song to sing or wisdom to declare?
On the day of your liberation.
your tongue will be loosed
and the words I give you will come.
You will be my bard.
proclaiming my reign in the world of men.
Men will hear your voice
and will know who it is that speaks.
Taliesin.
Father.
Who am I. father. that the
gods should war for my soul?
You are my son. boy.
and the greatest bard in
the history of your people.
Nothing more?
Is that not enough?
Come now.
Our enemies gather against us.
I need you.
Hail Maximus.
I don't remember a Roman legion
requiring the aid of a
Celtic ala to avoid defeat.
You have a short memory.
I see you've met the enemy.
Thank you for coming. Elphin.
but I can't allow you to stay.
The barbarian have overrun Luguvallium.
By the goddess.
The wall is fallen.
Go home. friend.
Defend your own.
Both our people will
stand a far better chance
if we stand together.
Besides we have my son to uphold us.
Hail. Taliesin!
I confess I should not
like to miss the chance
to fight under your blessing once more.
Then you shall have it.
Will you join me. Teacher?
The Horned God. what did he offer you?
Great power for a great price.
Let us hope your refusal is
not the doom of our people.
My acceptance surely would've been.
There is no other like
him in all the empire.
There is none other
like him in all the world.
Who could it be?
Saecsen? Irish?
More likely a traveler
stopping for rest and shade.
I never thought we would find it occupied.
One horse is hardly an occupation. Collen.
Still. we should wait.
Maybe they'll move on.
What are you doing?
We didn't come all this way
to cower before the prize.
Ave Maria.
Goodness.
Holy Mary. Mother of the Christ.
Have mercy on us.
What manner of men are you?
Unworthy men. Lady.
I see.
Why have you come here?
Seeking this holy place.
And who is this Holy
Mary of whom you speak?
Why. the Mother of the Most High.
Jesu the Christ. Savior of Mankind.
You are not the Blessed Lady?
There are those who would call me Savior.
but I've never heard of this goddess Mary.
Goddess?
Forgive us. Lady.
We worship no God but the True God.
the God who was once
worshiped in this very place.
The True God worshiped here?
That seems unlikely.
Again. I beg your forgiveness.
We have traveled all the way from Gaul
to find and restore this place
in order that the truth of our God
might be proclaimed once more hereabouts.
You speak often of truth.
Is this God of yours
so interested in truth?
In truth. yes. but also in love.
I see.
A strange God then.
and often disappointed. I should think.
This is blasphemy.
My companion studied
under Brother Martin in Tours.
He is zealous. but
perhaps less open-minded
than the situation calls for.
He's honest.
If you wish to restore this place.
you will need the
permission of King Avallach.
Faery!
You are of the Faer Folk.
who dwell in the Glass Isle?
The people here tell many
strange tales about you.
Have you heard we
change our shapes at will?
Have you heard we never sleep or rest
and we have but to bid
and the winds bring us news
from any corner of our realm?
And more.
What do you believe. Priest?
We will believe whatever
the Holy God reveals to us.
I trusted a God once. long ago.
What happened?
I killed him.
I've never seen anything like it.
Not in Rome or Athens
or Constantinople itself.
Truly. these are the Faery!
Hey. brother. they're mortals like as we.
Mortals. perhaps.
But never like us.
What strange men are you?
Priests. my lady.
Are they with the others?
Your father has given
audience to a large group
of strangely dressed Britons.
Our father. Morgian.
He asks that you join him on your return.
My presence was not requested.
Do you think these painted men
will strike this far south?
In time.
Although. in Dyfed. we heard the emperor
was withdrawing two legions from Gaul
and sending troops back to the wall.
Here she is.
King Elphin Ap Gwyddno. I
present to you my daughter.
the Princess Charis. Savior of our People.
Princess Charis.
Your father was just telling us
how you delivered your
people from calamity.
It is the way of fathers
to exaggerate the
accomplishments of their children.
Never say it.
Not an Atlantean draws
breath who doesn't owe their life
to my daughter.
My people know something of loss as well.
We too are strangers in these lands.
Travelers are always
welcome within these walls.
Please stay with us if you can.
Allow me to share the
bounty of my table this evening.
Your offer is most generous.
Please accept this token
as a sign of our gratitude.
You honor me. Lord Elphin.
Mmm.
I gather his people have been driven
from their homeland in the North?
Driven?
By war. war which will
soon visit us in the South.
If it is as bad as they declare.
You don't believe them?
Desperate men can never be trusted.
Can they be trusted?
Powerful men can never be trusted.
What say you. son?
Taliesin.
Sorry. Father.
I need you in the present.
not lost in the past.
King Avallach has shown kindness
when kindness was not required.
And yet?
I sense danger in this place.
You must be wary.
Mmm.
Are you unwell. King Avallach?
An old wound. and deep.
Pay me no heed.
It is fortunate your people were able
to escape the troubles
in the North. King Elphin.
Mm.
The luck of Elphin Ap
Gwyddno is legendary.
Among our people.
when breaking bread with new friends.
it's customary to have a song.
Alas. our best minstrels lie dead
at the bottom of the great sea.
Indeed.
We have all seen our
homes lost and kinsmen killed.
And yet. our people escaped
not only with our lives.
but with our greatest treasure.
Hafgan speaks truth.
The treasure is my son. Taliesin.
a bard of extraordinary talent.
Is this true?
Taliesin. Taliesin.
It is the way of fathers
to exaggerate the
accomplishments of their children.
False modesty is unbecoming. Taliesin.
King Avallach has
shared his bounty with us.
Let us share ours with him.
Hear. then. if you will.
the Lament of Pwyll.
Prince of Annwifn.
In the days when the dew of creation
was still fresh upon the earth.
Pwyll was lord over the
seven catrefs of Dyfed.
Seven of Gwynedd. and
seven of Lloegr as well.
In Caer Narberth. his
principal stronghold.
he awakened one morning
to look upon the hills.
abounding with game.
A thought came to him
and he assembled his
men to go out hunting.
And this is the way of it.
♪ In Glyn Cuch. as the
light of day did fade ♪
♪ Into the western sea. into the sea ♪
♪ In the hunting grounds ♪
♪ loosed the hounds to play ♪
♪ But they were not alone. not alone ♪
♪ An otherworldly king. ♪
♪ Arawn of Annwfn ♪
♪ His own hound packed
the mighty stag did kill ♪
♪ And upon this unaware
stood right King Pwyll ♪
Oh. ah-ah-ah
Charis!
Princess Charis?
The Savior of her People
is not here. stranger.
The foal is in breech?
I'm not strong enough to turn it.
The fourth emanation.
I know the price of the power you display.
I've never spilled blood for power.
Perhaps that's why I failed.
Failed?
Shh.
The foal is turned.
All be well.
Thank you.
Forgive me.
I seek the Princess Charis.
Did she come this way?
She took her grey and rode out.
She often bathes below the Tor at night.
when there are fewer prying eyes.
Thank you.
friend.
I beg your pardon. princess.
I didn't mean to startle you.
Is it customary in the
north to spy on a woman
while she bathes?
Never. lady.
Then what do you here?
I needed to see you.
Have you not seen enough of me?
It wasn't my intention to
intrude into your thoughts.
You intruded into my soul.
I know what the bull-god offered you.
Cernunnos offered me the same.
And?
I made the same choice you did.
Then damn us both.
Aye.
I do not find myself in need of company.
Less so the company of a savage.
Well. you think of us as savages. aye?
And we think of you as otherworldly.
Perhaps. we're both just people.
I am not just anything. singer.
How dare you enter my
chamber without leave!
You have no right!
It shows me more than it ever showed you!
Never from curiosity.
How many times have I told you?
You were ever weak.
And you were ever a
fool. Just like your sister.
Oh yes. she had the sight. too.
And what did she do with
it? Savior of our People?
A thousand thousand of our
kinsmen swallowed by the sea.
and this savage crag is our
salvation?
True power is killing
what you love. little girl.
not letting it kill you.
I do not love the bard.
It's only his power I desire.
As I desired yours.
And now you have none left to give.
Princess Charis.
Prince Taliesin.
Alas. only Taliesin.
Hereditary titles are not
known among the Cymry.
savage as we are.
Never say it!
Your people are as noble
as any I have encountered.
King Avallach. Lady of the Lake.
I've never met another like him.
He's proud enough.
When he sings. I forget
the pain of our loss.
Even my old wound grieves me less.
His song brings no comfort to me.
Truly?
I plan to gift them the
lands north of the Tor
if they will have them.
You would settle them here?
Their need is dire. and it's
not a tenth of my holdings.
You object?
Why should I care where
the singer lays his head?
Charis!
Wait!
I thought to find you barefoot.
Your boots. you left them at the lake.
A true prince would have returned them.
As I've said. I'm no prince.
But I'll redeem myself.
if you will allow me.
They are yours. are they not?
They are.
Neither pain nor pleasure. evermore.
I thought that was all life
held for me after our loss.
2.000 of us arrived on these
shores after the cataclysm.
Only 1.000 remain.
And yet. you live.
And while there is life in you.
there is hope for your people.
You are young-
To your eyes. perhaps.
My people carry our years
more lightly than others.
This place need not be a grave. Charis.
I like to believe
something great and tragic
occurred in this place.
Sometime long ago.
Do not tell me otherwise.
bard. Even if you know.
All the world is made up of
events both great and tragic.
Some are observed and remembered. others-
There was a woman.
She came from across the sea.
Her life was hard. for the land was harsh.
And she could not help
remembering all she had left behind.
She longed to return to her home.
What became of her?
She grew lonely.
And died.
Was there no man to love her?
Once there was a man
whose song captured her heart
as easily as a Fowler
catching a bird in a silken snare.
But they were from different
worlds. and it could not be.
Why is this?
Neither pain nor pleasure. evermore.
Charis! Charis!
Haw!
Look upon me then shinning brow.
All this is an illusion.
an echo of a voice that has died.
And soon that echo will cease.
Death before slavery!
Men are weak. Taliesin.
unwilling to pay the
price for better world.
There is a new power at
work in the world. I've seen it.
I've seen a lamb shining with goodness.
It's the kingdom of summer.
Where you came from no man knows.
Where you are going no man can say.
I'll not be separated from you.
I will not give my
daughter to a barbarian.
Marry me. Charis.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm